README.md, before:

# MTABenson_metis

Back Story

An email from a potential client:

Dave & Zach -

It was great to meet with you and chat at the event where we recently met and had a nice chat. We’d love to take some next steps to see if working together is something that would make sense for both parties.

As we mentioned, we are interested in harnessing the power of data and analytics to optimize the effectiveness of our street team work, which is a significant portion of our fundraising efforts.

WomenTechWomenYes (WTWY) has an annual gala at the beginning of the summer each year. As we are new and inclusive organization, we try to do double duty with the gala both to fill our event space with individuals passionate about increasing the participation of women in technology, and to concurrently build awareness and reach.

To this end we place street teams at entrances to subway stations. The street teams collect email addresses and those who sign up are sent free tickets to our gala.

Where we’d like to solicit your engagement is to use MTA subway data, which as I’m sure you know is available freely from the city, to help us optimize the placement of our street teams, such that we can gather the most signatures, ideally from those who will attend the gala and contribute to our cause.

The ball is in your court now—do you think this is something that would be feasible for your group? From there we can explore what kind of an engagement would make sense for all of us.

Best,

Karrine and Dahlia

WTWY International
Data:

MTA Data (Google it!)
Additional data sources welcome!
Skills:

python and pandas
visualizations via Matplotlib & seaborn
Analysis:

Exploratory Data Analysis
Deliverable/communication:

Group presentation (2-3 people per)
slide presentation
visual and oral communication in group presentations
organized project repository
We are very excited to see what you will learn and do for Project Benson!

Commit message:

Added workflow instructions to readme

README.md, after:

# MTABenson_metis

### Back Story

An email from a potential client:

Dave & Zach -

It was great to meet with you and chat at the event where we recently met and had a nice chat. We’d love to take some next steps to see if working together is something that would make sense for both parties.

As we mentioned, we are interested in harnessing the power of data and analytics to optimize the effectiveness of our street team work, which is a significant portion of our fundraising efforts.

WomenTechWomenYes (WTWY) has an annual gala at the beginning of the summer each year. As we are new and inclusive organization, we try to do double duty with the gala both to fill our event space with individuals passionate about increasing the participation of women in technology, and to concurrently build awareness and reach.

To this end we place street teams at entrances to subway stations. The street teams collect email addresses and those who sign up are sent free tickets to our gala.

Where we’d like to solicit your engagement is to use MTA subway data, which as I’m sure you know is available freely from the city, to help us optimize the placement of our street teams, such that we can gather the most signatures, ideally from those who will attend the gala and contribute to our cause.

The ball is in your court now—do you think this is something that would be feasible for your group? From there we can explore what kind of an engagement would make sense for all of us.

Best,

Karrine and Dahlia

WTWY International
Data:

MTA Data (Google it!)
Additional data sources welcome!
Skills:

python and pandas
visualizations via Matplotlib & seaborn
Analysis:

Exploratory Data Analysis
Deliverable/communication:

Group presentation (2-3 people per)
slide presentation
visual and oral communication in group presentations
organized project repository


We are very excited to see what you will learn and do for Project Benson!

### Workflow

For data cleaning after turnstile data, including selection of top station based on foot traffic and incorporation of income, see selecting_stations_chris.ipynb

For the construction of maps, see mapping_chris.ipynb
